by ways amen and uh... we certainly understand that he is trustworthy first
of the chapter number one
first of the chapter one be looking at verses twelve through seventeen this
morning
i trust that you've been working on the memory verse for the month of january we
went over and sunday school this morning a number of folks are sunny school
uh... had already had it memorized and so we thank the lord for that
so wonderful verse of scripture will deal with it at the end of the message
this morning
as it's in our text and of course in a couple of weeks
we'll be moving on to the february memory verse those are in the church
calendar
uh... if you did not get one there's some on the back table there in fact
there's some limited number of resources that are remaining in the back there
and uh... you can feel free to grab those if you need some extras
uh... after this week will be putting those away and if you need them you'll
have to let us know
uh... but those are there for you i'm so glad this morning that as we enter into
this portion of scripture
and we're reminded
uh... that god has given us a bible
and uh... what a blessing of course i dealt with that pretty much uh... the
entirety of the sunday school this morning
but it's through this book that we know god and understand what god's plan is
we understand this this morning that god is the giver
and the sustainer of life
and uh... today uh... on calendars around this nation is sanctity of life sunday
and i'm sure that you've probably heard that as a march of life yesterday
and uh... you begin to think about the sanctity of life and understanding
uh... even on the bulletins this week jeremiah one five is the verse that's
there
and uh... reminder about god being the giver
uh... and sustainer of life
and god has placed a high value on life
and uh... there's no doubt that we would reach that conclusion as bible
believers
but i would say this morning that you really only reach that conclusion
that life is valuable if you embrace the teaching of god's word
if you take away the teaching and truth of god's word you are not going to reach
the conclusion
that life has value that life is valuable
the idea of the sanctity of life as we said already this morning that that is
uh... recognized today
but really if you remove god
atheism tries to remove god by the way you can't remove god god is
and uh... he will always be
and we thank the lord for that
but there's some that try to deny god by the way romans one talks about those
that try to deny the existence of god
and by the way god never tries to prove his existence the bible just starts with
in the beginning god
and uh... we see that throughout the scriptures he shows us who he is
and what his plan is but atheism likes to have the idea that they can remove
god
and let me say this if you remove god life has no value
if you remove god life has no value
let me say this
if you remove creation
darwinianism
evolution so popular in our society today
uh... it's gained a lot of traction uh... within our public school systems
and a lot there's been generations of young people
that have been indoctrinated with
with this idea of the
theory of evolution and this evolution mindset this darwinian mindset
but if you remove the truth of god and creation
life has no value
if you follow the teaching of darwin and you understand the teaching of
evolution
you are never going to reach the conclusion that life has value
i would say this morning and we'll look at it in this text of scripture if you
remove the truth of salvation if you remove calvary
life has no value
we find this morning that the work of redemption
uh... that is painted for us this reminder that is given to us here in
first timothy chapter one
that here the work of redemption the
the work at calvary
it reminds us of the great value that god has placed on the life of every
human being
not only has man been created in the very image of god
but god in the person of jesus christ went to a cruel cross
he bled and he died he was buried and he rose again why because life is valuable
life has value
we find that paul clearly declares here in this portion of scripture the reason
for which christ came we find as we've used for the title this morning
as you look in this text of scripture in verse number fifteen
i've used it as the title that christ jesus came into the world
to save sinners
what a simple statement but how deep the truth
of that simple statement is
that christ jesus came into the world
to save sinners it's interesting as you study the book of john and you read
through the book of john
that often in the book of john you'll hear this reference or you'll see this
reference
to the hour
and uh... he begins referencing that in john chapter number two that the hour is
not yet come in
he makes that reference a few times over the next several chapters and
eventually get to chapter seventeen he says the hour is come
and that's the purpose for which christ came into the earth that
the truth of uh... bethlehem is that he came
so they could go to calvary
to go to calvary
and i'm thankful for a place called calvary i'm thankful for
the work that was accomplished there at calvary
and we find that christ jesus came to the world to save sinners it reveals the
condition of mankind
that man is lost
he came into the world to save sinners
so it reveals to us that simple statement reveals to us that mankind
is lost for all have sinned and come short of the glory of god
we find that it reveals to us
this simple statement from verse number fifteen in first samothy chapter one
reveals to us the love of god
that he came to save
sinners
he knew our helpless
hopeless condition
he knew that because of sin that entered into the garden
that every human being born thereafter would be born with a sin nature
and they would be at enmity with god
in need of reconciliation
and god so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever
believeth in him should not perish
but have everlasting life
and we see here that paul says it this way that christ jesus came into the
world
to save sinners
as we look at this truth this morning and we see
the way in which this was accomplished the substitutionary atonement
the sacrificial death
we see it as we read the gospel accounts we read
throughout the book of acts how the apostles
uh... reference back to that
event that took place at calvary that substitutionary atonement that
sacrificial death
where jesus took your place in my place on that cruel cross
we understand that he was buried
but all just a few days later there's a glorious
event that takes place the bodily resurrection of the lord jesus christ
we sing the song up from the grave he arose and how wonderful
it is to know that he lives
and this morning when we think about the value of human life
and we see what paul is referencing here in this portion of scripture
it helps us to understand that god has set a premium
on life
he died for us first peter chapter one says this you don't need to turn there
but we're not redeemed with corruptible things
we're not redeemed with gold and silver
no no we're redeemed with the precious
blood
of christ
what a wonderful truth
that would be given to us in first peter one verses eighteen and twenty i i just
paraphrase those verses
and and kind of help us to understand
in here paul
he understands the glorious truth
and in this portion of scripture just a few verses
he's going to share his testimony look with me in verse number twelve
paul says this and i thank christ jesus our lord
who hath enabled me
for that he counted me faithful
putting me into the ministry
who was before a blasphemer and a persecutor
and injurious
but i obtained mercy
because i did it ignorantly in unbelief notice verse fourteen in the grace of
our lord was exceeding
abundant
with faith and love which is in christ jesus
this is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation that christ jesus came
into the world
to save sinners of whom
i am chief
how be it
for this cause i obtained mercy
that in me first jesus christ might show forth all long-suffering
for a pattern to them which should hereafter believe on him
to life everlasting
that our memory verse for this month now under the king eternal
immortal invisible
the only wise god be honor and glory forever and ever
amen
what a great portion of scripture
as we look at these few verses of scripture this morning and see
where paul was testifying of what christ did for him
i want to notice if you're taking notes this morning number one consider what
paul received
notice through this passage of scripture that paul references what it
was that he received
we'll look at verse thirteen where he says this but i obtained
mercy
i'm so thankful that our god is merciful
i'm so thankful that he
uh... is a god who is
rich in mercy according to ephesians chapter number two
i'm thankful this morning
that i personally even as paul would testify in verse thirteen that i
obtained mercy
that i personally in
you personally can stand with Paul and say, I have obtained mercy.
To be the personal recipient of God's mercy, how blessed we are.
We find that not only does Paul recognize that he received mercy, but we find that he
speaks of the grace that he received.
In verse number 14 he says, and the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant.
I love the way that he uses that phraseology.
We sing, and of course many of us are familiar with that wonderful song, Amazing Grace, and
what a great song it is, and you understand the backstory to that song, and the way that
the writer understood the grace of God, and here Paul, he doesn't use the word amazing
under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit of God, he says that it was exceeding abundant.
I didn't just need a little bit of grace, I need a lot of grace, and I'm thankful that
our God is gracious.
I'm thankful that our God is merciful.
I'm thankful that as I look here, that I could say this as I think about the mercy and the
grace that Paul received, that he received salvation.
He says that he received the mercy in verse 13, the grace in verse number 14, but in verse
number 15 he gives the idea, the truth of being saved.
He says this is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came
into the world to save sinners, and then he says this, of whom I am chief.
Paul said, God saved me.
Can you imagine this morning, Paul as he's sharing with Timothy the importance of continuing
as he's giving Timothy the charge to continue and all the false teaching that's going on
and all the importance of continuing in sound doctrine and teaching the truth, and we mentioned
these things over the last couple of weeks, and now Paul says that I have obtained mercy,
that God's grace is exceeding abundant, that I've been saved by the grace and mercy of
God, and he came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief.
It's a wonderful message.
It's actually the message that he references in verse number 11, where he talks about,
he calls it this, the glorious gospel.
I'm so thankful for the glorious gospel.
The gospel is the good news of Jesus Christ, and we find that the glorious gospel, he says
this, of the blessed God which was committed to my trust, and it reveals to us when you
think about what Paul received, not only did he receive mercy and grace and salvation,
but he received a purpose in living.
You know, many people today, when you talk to them, and even if you would think about
and review your own life, there's a lack of purpose apart from Christ.
Why are we here?
What is the purpose?
What are we to achieve?
And I remember as a young person, and I remember going through high school and not being saved
and kind of struggling with that idea of why am I here, what is my purpose?
And then I got saved by the grace of God, his mercy and his grace, and he saved me.
And then he gave me purpose, gave me a calling.
And this morning, I've said to so many people over the years that really I had no purpose,
no direction.
Oh, could you talk to me about what do you want to do when you grow up, and what kind
of career do you want to have, and what's of interest?
And sure, you could talk about those kind of things, but was there really purpose?
And we find this morning that Paul understood that what he received, not only salvation,
but he received purpose for living.
He says in verse number 11 that according to the glorious gospel of the blessed God,
which was, notice, committed to my trust.
There's this personal purpose and responsibility, and then he elaborates on that in verse number
12.
Notice he says, and I thank Christ Jesus.
Notice when he says, our Lord, he's my Lord and my Savior.
He says this, who hath enabled me?
I'm thankful for God's enabling.
We could talk about God's grace, not only in saving, which we see in verse number 14,
but we also see in his enabling grace for service, he's enabled me.
And then notice when he says, for that he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry.
Putting me into the ministry.
It helps us understand the way that God calls people in the ministry.
It wasn't necessarily that Paul just said, you know, I think this would be a good career
path for me.
There's a lot of benefits over here, and it's, no, God called him, God equipped him, God
put him into the ministry.
What a blessing.
And Paul has purpose.
I want you to think about the life of Paul, and you think about what he received, and
you understand that as Paul would reference in this text of Scripture, these are the things
that I have been a recipient of.
And I want you to think about Timothy.
You know, Timothy, a lot of writers have the belief that Timothy, because of the circumstances
in Ephesus, because of the false teaching that was going on, and we've already outlined
some things over the last few weeks of entering into this portion of study through 1 and 2
Timothy with the thought of continue.
Some have the idea that Timothy was at a place of discouragement in his life.
Because of the discouragement in his life, thus the charge, continue.
Because of the thought of maybe giving up and turning back because of all the pressures,
Paul says, no, continue.
And I want you to think how God would use this portion of Scripture, as Paul is writing
to Timothy, to help Timothy to be encouraged.
You know how encouraging it is when you begin to hear somebody talk about their testimony
of being saved?
And then you all of a sudden say, you know what?
I received mercy too.
God's grace was abundant, exceeding abundant to me too.
Guess what?
God gave me purpose as well.
He saved me.
All of a sudden we get our attention off of our circumstances and onto our Lord and what
His purpose is for us and how He saved us and oh how glorious that is.
God is infinite wisdom.
In this portion of Scripture has Paul transitioned for just a period of time and share this testimony
that I think would be used in such a powerful way to encourage his man, Timothy.
I hope it encourages you this morning as well when we consider what we've received.
When we look here, Paul considered what he had received and he rehearsed what he had
received.
But I want you as we continue to move through the passage of Scripture, not only consider
what Paul received, but consider number two, what Paul remembered.
Notice what Paul remembered.
Verse number 13 is an interesting verse of Scripture because Paul remembered who he was.
Do you remember who you were before you got saved?
Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners of whom I am chief is what Paul says.
And we looked at that verse just a moment ago and we can think about the truth of Luke
19 where the Bible says that Christ Jesus for this purpose the Son of Man came for what?
To seek and to save that which was lost.
And we notice here that Paul, he remembered who he was.
He says in verse number 13, who was before?
You know, anyone that's saved has a before.
For some of us, our before is longer than others.
Isaac trusted Christ just a couple of Wednesdays ago.
He's eight years old, right?
He's eight.
Isaac is eight.
And so his before is a lot shorter than some of our befores.
But what I'm thankful for is our before, excuse me, let me say it this way, our before doesn't
define our present or our future.
We all have a past.
We all have a before.
And Paul says this, who was before?
A blasphemer and a persecutor and injurious.
But then he says I obtained mercy because I did it ignorantly in unbelief.
It's interesting because Paul often will talk about who he was before he got saved and who
he is after he got saved.
And we find that it's said this way in Galatians chapter number one, in verse number 23, the
Bible says, but they had heard only that he which persecuted us in time past now preacheth
the faith which once he destroyed and they glorified God in me.
Now think about that transition.
He went from persecuting to preaching.
He went to go and imprison and beat and even sentenced to death those that were preaching
the glorious message of the gospel and then he gets saved by the grace of God and he begins
to preach the same message that he was persecuting others for preaching.
I mean it's amazing and Paul though he remembers who he was.
You know sometimes it's a good exercise for us to remember who we were.
To remember how hopeless we were.
To remember how helpless we were.
And it helps us to see God's grace and God's mercy.
Oh we should never glory in our past, we never glory in our sin, but oh when we remember
who we were, where we were, we remember what Christ did for us.
See Paul says he was a blasphemer to revile or to speak reproachfully of God.
Paul says that he was a persecutor, one who would pursue another unjustly, one who would
harass, one who would seek to inflict pain.
That's what he was.
He was a blasphemer, he was a persecutor, he was injurious, he was unjust, he was hurtful
to those, to the rights of others, he was violent.
It's interesting if you look at Acts chapter number 7, the Bible will tell us about the
stoning of Stephen.
You read in Acts chapter number 7, the preaching of Stephen, I mean what a great sermon that
Stephen preached and he preaches, he had a good handle of God's word, he preached a great
message and we find that the Bible tells us at the end of the text of scripture that
his clothes were left and laid at a man's feet, the man's name was Saul.
And Saul I believe because of what he witnessed there at the stoning of Stephen and how he
experienced that moment and seeing all that took place.
In chapter number 8 he intensifies his persecution against the church.
I mean he's, the persecution is intensified, chapter 9 specifically talks about Saul going
out and he's got the letters, he's got the authority, he's breathing out these threatenings
and I mean he's just on a rampage, why?
Because sometimes that's how we respond to conviction.
Sometimes when conviction comes we respond by just trying to bore right through it and
just try to just overcome it with intensifying the rebellion towards that which is giving
us conviction.
And that's what Saul did.
But something miraculous happened in Acts 9.
Saul's on his way to Damascus, you know the account, and as he's on the way to Damascus
the Bible says that he sees a bright light, Saul, Saul, and he hears the voice of God
and he says, who art thou, Lord?
And he says this, what wilt thou have me to do?
And we find that in Acts chapter number 9 it all changed.
It was a glorious transformation.
I'm thankful this morning that the Bible speaks about transformation.
Salvation that Christ offers is transforming.
Some people talk about needing reformation.
We don't need reformation, we need transformation.
We don't need for an individual to be reformed, no, we need to be transformed by the power
of God.
2 Corinthians 5.17 says this, therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature.
Old things are passed away, behold all things are become new.
Paul saw, he remembered what Christ did for him.
He remembered who he was.
He remembered what Christ did for him.
He remembered, no doubt as you study the life of the Apostle Paul and you watch and you
walk with him through the book of Acts and the various journeys that God lets him go
on and the people that he has the privilege of standing before and testifying to, we find
that Paul regularly revisits the road to Damascus.
I wonder this morning how often do we remember where we were when we got saved?
How often do we remember the day that we got saved?
Can you remember this morning where you were when you got saved?
I remember where I was.
I remember being in the living room of that house in Southern California.
I didn't want to move to Southern California, my parents didn't want to move to Southern
California, we wanted nothing to do with Southern California, but God took us to Southern California
and by God's grace I got saved in Southern California.
I remember coming home from church and I remember the conviction in my own life and I remember
the hypocrisy acting as if I was saved but knowing that I was not saved and kind of walking
through and knowing the right answers to give.
But oh, the conviction came upon me and I knew I was not saved.
I bowed my heart and I got on my knees in that living room, in that military housing
on Camp Pendleton and I got saved by the grace of God, praise God.
Sometimes it's good for us to revisit in our minds, you might not be able to go to the
exact place where you got saved, I can't go to that home and I can't go to that living
room, I don't even know if the home's still there.
But in my mind, I can go back and I can remember.
You know, it does us good.
Here's a thought this morning with this truth of what Paul remembered in thinking about
the fact that he says, who was before a blasphemer and a persecutor and injurious.
But he says, I obtained mercy.
I think about what Paul says in 1 Corinthians chapter number 6.
Turn over there if you will and I want you to see what God says and about God's grace
and how thankful we are for the grace of God which has been bestowed upon us.
And Paul received salvation, he received the mercy and the grace, he was saved by the grace
of God, he received purpose for his life, for living.
And we find in 1 Corinthians chapter number 6, notice if you will in verse number 9.
1 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse number 9, the Bible says this, know ye not that the
unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God.
Be not deceived, neither fornicators nor idolaters nor adulterers nor effeminate nor abusers
of themselves with mankind, nor thieves nor covetous nor drunkards nor revilers nor extortioners
shall inherit the kingdom of God.
Say, man, we're guilty and he says this in verse number 11, and such were some of you.
You see that little word, but, I'm so thankful for that little word.
Great conjunction, a change in direction.
Be such were some of you, but ye are washed, but ye are sanctified, but ye are justified
in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God.
I love verse number 11 of 1 Corinthians 6 and we have to catch it in context.
You have to read verse 9 and 10 and understand who they were, what they were, and the fact
that you cannot inherit the kingdom of God, but I'm thankful for God's grace and God's
mercy and that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners.
Paul says, of whom I am chief.
How many times Jesus goes in and he speaks to the religious leaders of the day who were
self-righteous.
I mean, they wanted everyone to look at them and Jesus regularly, it was clear through
his teaching and through his interaction with that group of people that he says, you guys
are self-righteous.
You're not looking for a savior.
You think that your good works, you think that your position is going to earn you some
inheritance.
No, no, no.
Understand that he said, I came to seek and to save that which was lost.
He came for sinners.
By the way, we're all sinners.
And I love verse number 11 when he says, and such were some of you.
But then notice the three words that describe us now.
Paul says that he remembers, this is what I was before.
I was a blasphemer, I was a persecutor, I was injurious.
But look at these three words that define us after that transformation.
I'm washed.
I'm sanctified.
I'm justified.
Isn't that wonderful?
The transformation of the gospel.
This morning, Paul, as we look at this portion of Scripture, we see what he received.
Mercy, grace, salvation, purpose.
We see what he remembered.
Perhaps you're familiar with that wonderful song.
I was actually singing it through the building this morning.
It's a good thing no one was here early.
Calvary covers it all.
Not just some of it, but all of it.
My past with its sin and stain.
My guilt and despair, Jesus took on him there.
And Calvary covers it all.
I'm so thankful this morning for salvation.
Paul received.
Paul remembered.
Consider with me as we conclude this morning, consider how Paul rejoiced.
Consider how Paul rejoiced.
We come to the verse of Scripture that we've set as our theme verse for this particular
calendar year, excuse me, this month of the calendar, in verse 17 of 1 Timothy 1.
Now unto the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise God, be honor and glory forever
and ever.
Amen.
Paul, why is it that they're such rejoicing?
Because Paul remembered what he received.
Paul remembered who he was.
And now he's rejoicing greatly.
Notice what he says in verse 16 as we begin to understand Paul making this truth in this
application even that would be for us still even today.
He says that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of whom I am chief in verse
15.
But then in verse 16, how be it for this cause I obtained mercy that in me first Jesus Christ
might show forth all longsuffering, then notice this, for a pattern to them which should hereafter
believe on him to life everlasting.
I'm thankful that God's longsuffering.
I'm thankful for this pattern that we see here in verse 16 that is established where
Paul says that he set forth all longsuffering for a pattern to them which should
hereafter belief. Belief for what? On Him to life everlasting. This morning as we begin
to think about this portion of Scripture, as we begin to think about Paul sharing his
own testimony, but then we see how Paul is rejoicing. This morning, he says, now unto
the King eternal. Oh, I'm thankful that we serve an eternal God. Immortal. Invisible.
Firstly says, the only wise God. Be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. This morning
as Paul is rejoicing in this portion of Scripture, I wonder this morning, how often are we rejoicing
for the same reason that we see Paul rejoicing here in 1 Timothy chapter number 1? Often
our rejoicing, unfortunately, is based on how our circumstances are going. Somebody
said this, we ought to be more like a thermostat than a thermometer. You know the difference
between a thermostat and a thermometer? One sets the temperature, one reads the temperature.
Right? And sometimes we deal with our interactions in life like we're the thermometer. We vary
all over the place based on our circumstances, what's going on. But we need to be like that
thermostat that just sets the temperature. He says, listen, this is the day the Lord
hath made me. I'm going to rejoice and be glad in it. Why? Because I'm going to heaven.
You say, pastor, you don't know how bad my day was Tuesday, Friday, whatever day. I mean,
everything that could go wrong went wrong. Guess what? You're still going to heaven.
Amen? You say, pastor, you just make it too simple. I'm just telling you this morning
that Paul had a harder life than you did, or than you do. Paul faced some terrible things.
But he's a man that's rejoicing. Why? I think because he regularly remembered his salvation.
He remembered what Christ did for him. He remembered how he saved his soul. And this
morning I would say it this way, we must never get over being saved. We must never get over
being saved. You know, sometimes the further we get removed, if you will, from the time
of our salvation, sometimes we can become forgetful. Sometimes we can almost just, man,
it seems like I've always been saved. No, you haven't always been saved. And we think
about Paul rejoicing in this portion of Scripture, and I wonder this morning, when we read verses
like rejoice evermore, when we read verses like what I mentioned a moment ago in Psalm
118 and verse 24, this is the day the Lord hath made, we will rejoice and be glad in
it. It's a determination. It's a decision that we make. And when we have every day of
our lives, I hope this morning, when we face each day of our life, that we begin that day
not only thanking God for the day, but being mindful of thanking God for our salvation,
what He did for us, how He saved us. Turn to the book of Luke, if you will, chapter
10. I believe this morning that as we determine that we'll never get over being saved. I hope
you understand what I mean by that. Sometimes it seems like we can be like the church at
Ephesus that's being rebuked there that left their first love. In the book of Revelation,
chapter number 2, God says, I have somewhat against you. See, we must never get over the
fact that we've been saved by the grace of God. And we find this morning that in Luke
chapter number 10, the Lord Jesus Christ is interacting here. And the Bible says that
He sent out 70. Notice in verse number 1, after these things, the Lord appointed other
seventy also and sent them two and two before His face into every city and place, whether
He Himself would come. He said unto them, The harvest truly is great, but the labors
are few. Pray therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that He would send forth labors into His harvest.
Go your ways, behold, I send you forth as lambs among wolves. He gives them instruction
with regard to the purpose of them going out. We see that they go and we will not take the
time to read all the way through down 16 and all the instruction that's given. But I want
you to see in verse 17, the Bible says that the 70 return, according to verse number 17.
So in verse number 1, we find that He's sending out these 70. He sent them two and two, according
to verse number 1 of chapter 10. And then we find in verse 17 that they return. The
70 returned again. Notice what it says, they returned how? They returned with joy. They
returned with joy. I want you to think about these folks returning with joy and it's important
that we as God's people, we have joy. But I want you to see what their joy is in. What
was it that caused them to have joy? Well notice in verse 17, notice what they say to
the Lord, even the devils are subject unto us through thy name. I mean that was causing
them to rejoice. We went out like you said and I mean, and by the way, Jesus said you
were going to have power over this and then they saw they're coming back with joy. I mean
look at what happened. They're rejoicing. He said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning
fall from heaven. Behold, I give unto you power to tread on serpents and scorpions and
over all the power of the enemy and nothing shall by any means hurt you. That's a great
promise in verse 19 that he gave to these 70. But I want you to see what he says in
verse 20. Notwithstanding in this rejoice not. In what? That the spirits are subject
unto you. But rather rejoice. Rejoice why? Because your names are written in heaven.
That's a wonderful verse of scripture because you know what? As they would go forth, you
ever go out trying to reach people at the gospel? Listen, when I've gone out and I try
to reach people at the gospel, it is an exciting thing when someone gets saved. When you're
able to open the word of God and show them from God's word how they're a sinner in need
of the only savior to expound to them the very truth that we're looking at here from
first Timothy chapter one that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of whom
I am chief and we say, listen, you might be a sinner, but he's a savior and he came to
save sinners. And you sit down with them and you go through the scriptures and you show
them how the word of God teaches that we're all sinners. We're all in need of the savior.
God loved us so much that he died for us. He took our place so that we could be saved
by the grace of God. You talk to that individual and you share the gospel with them and Dion
and Armando were sitting there with me on Wednesday night a week and a half ago when
Isaac, we went through this very process and we're sharing the gospel with Isaac and sharing
the verses and Isaac says, I want to be saved. And Isaac bowed his head and he prayed and
he asked Jesus to save him. Listen, the Bible says there's rejoicing in heaven and there's
rejoicing on earth. We were rejoicing in that moment. It was wonderful. You go out and you
go soul winning, you go trying to reach people with the gospel and you see somebody respond
in faith, it's exciting, but it doesn't happen all the time. And if that's the requirement
for us to rejoice, it's going to be all over the place. We're going to be like a thermometer,
are rejoicing. You understand what I'm saying? But Jesus says, don't rejoice in that. Rejoice
rather that your names are written in heaven. You know what's amazing about that? It can't
change. It can't change. We sing the song, you're familiar with it, and I said this to
Isaac just after he prayed. I said, Isaac, you know that song? And unfortunately he didn't
remember the song so it kind of spoiled my whole situation there. But there's a wonderful
song. There's a new name written down in glory. And what does it say? And it's mine, oh yes
it's mine. What a joy. And I told Isaac, I said, well you need to learn that song,
you can sing it, because you just got saved. Your name is written down in glory. What a
wonderful truth that Jesus gives us here in Luke chapter number 10, because your names
are written in heaven. I wonder this morning, do you know that your name is written in heaven?
Do you know that you've been saved by the grace of God? As Paul rehearses here in first
Timothy chapter number 1, as he's seeking to be used of the Lord to encourage his son
in the faith, to encourage Timothy to continue on, not to give up, not to throw in the towel,
but to continue, he begins to rehearse his testimony. He begins to share with Timothy
how that he received some things. He didn't work for some things, he received them. They're
gifts. He received grace. He received mercy. He received redemption. He received salvation
through the Lord Jesus Christ. And at that moment in Paul's life, his name was written.
His name was written in the book. And what a glorious truth.
See, Paul gives truth to this in the book of Philippians, in chapter number 4.
He speaks about that very truth of those that have their names written in the book of life.
He speaks of, as he's giving this truth, and I want you to consider as we put all this
together and try to wrap it together this morning and see in our final point, why is
Paul rejoicing in the way that he is?
Why does he conclude the portion of Scripture?
It almost, someone could almost look at it and say, well, it's kind of out of place.
No, it's right in place because he's rehearsing his salvation, he's rehearsing what Christ
did for him and how God gave him mercy and grace and saved him and gave him purpose and
who he was before he remembered, but he remembered that what he was before does not define who
he is now because there was something that took place on the road to Damascus.
He was saved by the grace of God.
Therefore, he says, now unto the King, eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise God, be
honor and glory forever and ever.
Amen.
In Philippians chapter number 4, he begins in verse number 1, he says,
Therefore, my brethren, dearly beloved, and longed for my joy and crown, so stand fast
in the Lord, my dearly beloved.
I beseech Jodeas and beseech Syntyche, that they be of the same mind in the Lord.
And I entreat thee also, true yoke fellow, help those women which labored with me in
the gospel with Clement also and with other my fellow laborers, notice what he says, whose
names are written in the book of life.
Do you know what the next verse is?
Verse 4, rejoice in the Lord always.
And again, I say, rejoice.
Is it not of interest to you this morning that when Jesus is teaching in Luke chapter
number 9, those 70 are sent out, they return with joy, and Jesus says, listen, yes, you've
been given power over that, but don't rejoice in that, rather rejoice that your names are
written in heaven.
We find that Paul says to the believers in Philippi, as he's writing to them, he speaks
of those whose names are in the book of life, and he says, rejoice in the Lord always.
And again, I say rejoice.
And then when he shares his testimony in 1 Timothy chapter number 1 with Timothy, and
he says, here's what has happened to me, I've been saved by the grace of God.
My name was written in the book of life, therefore I rejoice.
But Paul, this is against you, but Paul, this has happened, but Paul, they are going to,
my name is written in the book of life.
I've been saved by the grace of God.
D.L.
Moody famously, it's said of him, and I'm not sure how you would respond to such a situation,
but it is said that D.L.
Moody was on the streets of Chicago, and a man pulled a gun on him, and held the gun
right to him, and he looked at that man and said, you can't threaten me with heaven.
That's amazing.
That's a man that knew that his name was written in the book of life, a man that had assurance
of his salvation.
And this morning, when we think about this passage of Scripture, and that great declaration
that is given in verse number 15 of the text, now this is a faithful saying and worthy of
all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief.
I wonder this morning, when we recognize what we've received, as Paul did, when we remember
who we were and what Christ did for us, how does it impact our rejoicing?
This morning, maybe you're here and you say, I don't know that there's ever been a time
in my life where my name was written in the book of life.
I don't know today that heaven is my home.
If someone held a gun to me like they did to D.L.
Moody, I would not say you can't threaten me with heaven, because I don't know what
would happen.
Can I tell you this morning, 2 Corinthians says, today is the day of salvation.
Today, your name could be written in the book of life, because Christ Jesus came into the
world to save sinners.
He loved us so much.
He knew our condition, but He loved us so much, and He went to a cruel cross.
He bled and He died.
He was buried and He rose, conquering sin, death, and the grave.
And He says, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.
This morning, maybe there's someone that needs to be saved this morning.
For many of us, we've already been saved.
Our names have been written in the book of life.
For me, it was written on August 31st, 1997, that little living room of that government
provided housing on Camp Pendleton.
I don't know where the place was for you.
But I wonder how often do we, in our minds, revisit that place so that we would rejoice
in what Christ has done for us.
See, we're going to face some difficulties, but on your worst day and on my worst day,
I'm still going to heaven, and nothing, no one can take that away from me.
And if you're saved this morning, nothing and no one can take that away from you.
And that is a great Bible teaching.
And it should cause us to rejoice greatly that we should say, honor and glory forever
and ever, amen.
Let's pray.
Father, we love you.
We thank you for loving us.
We thank you for this portion of Scripture.
We thank you, God, for the testimony of Paul.
And I thank you that as we've had opportunity to rehearse his testimony this morning and
to see how he never got over the day that he got saved.
God, maybe there's someone here this morning that needs to be saved.
I pray that today they would bow their head and heart, place their faith and trust in
the finished work of Christ at Calvary.
Maybe this morning there's some saved folks that, Lord, we've just kind of gotten a little
calloused.
We've kind of gotten used to being saved.
Lord, I pray this morning that we'd revisit with freshness, rejoice in our salvation.
Lord, help us to never grow cold.
Lord, help us to be faithful to give you the glory, the praise that's due unto your wonderful
name.
Thank you for saving me.
I pray, Lord, that you'd move and work in these moments as only you can.
We'll be certain to give you the glory for it.
It's in Christ's name we pray.
Would you stand with me?
I pray, Lord, that you'd move and work in these moments as only you can.
We'll be certain to give you the glory for it.